README.md, before:

# Planning Poker

A production-ready Planning Poker application built with Angular 17+ and Supabase for reliable real-time synchronization.

## Features

- **Real-Time Sync**: Reliable cross-browser synchronization with Supabase PostgreSQL and real-time subscriptions
- **Admin Controls**: Room creator has exclusive control over voting sessions
  - Start Voting button to begin estimation rounds
  - Reveal/Hide votes toggle
  - Reset votes for new rounds
  - Remove participants from room
- **Visual Poker Table**: Interactive circular table with participants seated around it
- **Share Room**: Copy room URL to clipboard for easy team sharing
- **Custom Favicon & Background**: Expressive Planning Poker themed design
- **PWA Support**: Web app manifest for installation on mobile devices
- **Modern Stack**: Angular 17+ with Standalone Components and Signals
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first UI with Angular Material
- **GitHub Pages**: Free static hosting with automated deployments
- **Persistent Storage**: Data backed by PostgreSQL database
- **Free Tier Available**: Generous Supabase free tier (500MB database, 5GB bandwidth)

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Angular 17+ (Standalone Components)
- **State Management**: Angular Signals
- **Real-Time Sync**: Supabase (PostgreSQL + Real-time subscriptions)
- **UI Library**: Angular Material
- **Styling**: SCSS
- **Hosting**: GitHub Pages
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm
- Angular CLI 17+

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/planning-poker.git
cd planning-poker
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. **Set up Supabase** (required):
   - Follow the detailed setup guide in [SUPABASE_SETUP.md](SUPABASE_SETUP.md)
   - Create a Supabase project
   - Set up database tables
   - Configure environment files with your API keys

### Development Server

Run the development server:
```bash
npm start
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any source files.

### Build

Build the project for production:
```bash
npm run build:prod
```

The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## How to Use

### Creating a Room

1. Go to the home page
2. Enter your name
3. Click "Create New Room"
4. Share the generated Room ID with your team

### Joining a Room

1. Go to the home page
2. Enter your name
3. Click "Join Existing Room"
4. Enter the Room ID shared by your team
5. Click "Join Room"

### Voting

1. The room creator (admin) starts by clicking **"Start Voting"**
2. Once voting starts, all participants can select a card value (Fibonacci: 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 35, 50, 100, ?)
3. Votes are hidden from others until revealed
4. Admin clicks **"Reveal Votes"** to show all votes with animated card flip
5. View the average calculation (excluding "?" votes)
6. Admin clicks **"Reset Votes"** to start a new round (returns to "Start Voting" state)

### Admin Features

The room creator has exclusive admin controls:
- **Admin PIN Protection**: Set an optional PIN when creating a room for persistent admin access
  - Admin ID persists permanently (no 24-hour expiry)
  - Use PIN to regain admin access when returning to the room
  - Regular participants still have 24-hour session expiry
- **Start Voting**: Begin a new voting round (clears previous votes automatically)
- **Reveal/Hide Votes**: Toggle vote visibility for all participants
- **Reset Votes**: Clear all votes and return to initial state
- **Remove Participants**: Remove any participant from the room (except yourself)
- **Share Room**: Copy full room URL to share with team members

### Rejoining as Admin

To rejoin a room as admin after closing your browser:
1. Go to the home page and click "Join Existing Room"
2. Enter your name and the Room ID
3. Click "Yes" when asked if you want to join as admin
4. Enter the admin PIN you set when creating the room
5. You'll regain full admin controls

## Deployment to GitHub Pages

### One-Time Setup

1. Go to your GitHub repository
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Pages**
3. Under **Build and deployment**:
   - Source: Select "GitHub Actions"

### Automatic Deployment

The application is configured to automatically deploy to GitHub Pages on every push to the `main` branch.

The GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/deploy.yml`) will:
1. Install dependencies
2. Build the Angular app with the correct base href
3. Deploy to GitHub Pages

### Manual Deployment

To manually trigger a deployment:
1. Go to the **Actions** tab in your repository
2. Select the "Deploy to GitHub Pages" workflow
3. Click "Run workflow"

### Update Base Href

Make sure to update the `base-href` in [package.json](package.json) to match your repository name:

```json
"build:prod": "ng build --configuration production --base-href /your-repo-name/"
```

Replace `your-repo-name` with your actual GitHub repository name.

## Project Structure

```
planning-poker/
├── src/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── home/
│   │   │   │   ├── home.component.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── home.component.html
│   │   │   │   └── home.component.scss
│   │   │   └── room/
│   │   │       ├── room.component.ts
│   │   │       ├── room.component.html
│   │   │       └── room.component.scss
│   │   ├── services/
│   │   │   └── supabase.service.ts
│   │   ├── environments/
│   │   │   ├── environment.ts (created from template)
│   │   │   ├── environment.prod.ts (created from template)
│   │   │   └── environment.template.ts
│   │   ├── app.component.ts
│   │   ├── app.config.ts
│   │   └── app.routes.ts
│   ├── assets/
│   │   └── home-background.svg
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── favicon.svg
│   ├── favicon-*.png
│   ├── apple-touch-icon.png
│   ├── manifest.json
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── main.ts
│   └── styles.scss
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── deploy.yml
├── SUPABASE_SETUP.md
├── FAVICON.md
├── angular.json
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── README.md
```

## Architecture

### SupabaseService

The `SupabaseService` handles all Supabase interactions and exposes Angular Signals for reactive state management:

- **State Management**: Uses `WritableSignal<RoomState>` for reactive updates
- **Real-Time Sync**: Connects to Supabase PostgreSQL with real-time subscriptions
- **Heartbeat**: Sends periodic updates to show active participants
- **Real-Time Updates**: Automatically syncs votes, participants, and reveal state
- **Persistence**: Data stored in PostgreSQL database

### Components

#### HomeComponent
- Create new rooms with random alphanumeric IDs
- Join existing rooms by entering a Room ID
- Input validation for user name

#### RoomComponent
- Visual poker table with participants seated around it
- Fibonacci voting cards (0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 35, 50, 100, ?)
- Admin-only controls (Start Voting, Reveal/Hide, Reset, Remove Participants)
- Vote state management (disabled until admin starts voting)
- Animated vote reveal with card flip effect
- Average calculation using computed signals
- Share room URL button (copies full URL to clipboard)
- Copy Room ID button (copies just the ID)
- Real-time participant updates around the table

## Supabase Configuration

The application uses Supabase for reliable real-time synchronization across browsers and machines.

### Database Tables

- **rooms**: Stores room state (revealed status, voting_started flag, admin_user_id)
- **participants**: Stores participant information (votes, names, lastSeen timestamps)

### Real-Time Subscriptions

The app subscribes to PostgreSQL changes using Supabase Realtime:

- **Participant updates**: Detects when users join, vote, or leave
- **Room updates**: Detects when votes are revealed or reset
- **Automatic cleanup**: Stale participants (inactive >10 seconds) are removed

### Benefits of Supabase

- ✅ **Reliable**: No dependency on unreliable public relay servers
- ✅ **Cross-browser sync**: Works reliably between different browsers and devices
- ✅ **Persistent storage**: PostgreSQL database with proper backups
- ✅ **Scalable**: Handles many concurrent users
- ✅ **Admin features**: Database-backed admin controls and permissions
- ✅ **Free tier**: Generous limits (500MB DB, 5GB bandwidth)

## State Management

The application uses Angular Signals for reactive state management:

- **Room State Signal**: Central state containing participants, votes, reveal status, and voting_started flag
- **Computed Signals**: Derived values like average vote, participant count, voted count, and admin status
- **Automatic Reactivity**: UI updates automatically when Supabase pushes state changes via real-time subscriptions

## Mobile Support

The application is fully responsive with mobile-first design:
- Touch-friendly voting cards
- Responsive grid layouts
- Mobile-optimized navigation
- Adaptive typography and spacing
- PWA support for installation on mobile devices
- Apple touch icon for iOS home screen
- Responsive poker table that scales on mobile devices

## Browser Support

- Chrome/Edge (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)
- Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for any purpose.

## Troubleshooting

### Database Migration (Existing Installations)

If you're updating from an earlier version, you need to add new columns to your existing database:

```sql
-- Add voting_started column (if not already added)
ALTER TABLE rooms ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS voting_started BOOLEAN DEFAULT false;

-- Add admin_pin column for persistent admin access
ALTER TABLE rooms ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS admin_pin TEXT;
```

Run this in your Supabase SQL Editor (Settings → Database → SQL Editor).

### Supabase Connection Issues

If you experience sync issues:
1. Verify your Supabase API keys are correct in environment files
2. Check that database tables exist (see [SUPABASE_SETUP.md](SUPABASE_SETUP.md))
3. Ensure the `voting_started` column exists in the `rooms` table
4. Ensure Realtime is enabled for both tables
5. Check browser console for errors
6. Verify your Supabase project is not paused (free tier)

### Build Errors

If you encounter build errors:
1. Delete `node_modules` and `package-lock.json`
2. Run `npm install` again
3. Clear Angular cache: `rm -rf .angular/cache`
4. Run `npm run build:prod`

### Deployment Issues

If GitHub Pages deployment fails:
1. Check the Actions tab for error logs
2. Ensure GitHub Pages is enabled in repository settings
3. Verify the base-href in package.json matches your repo name
4. Check that the workflow has the correct permissions

## Visual Design

The application features custom Planning Poker themed graphics:
- **Custom Favicon**: Poker card design with Fibonacci number "8" in Material Indigo
- **Multiple Icon Sizes**: SVG, ICO, and PNG formats for all devices (16x16, 32x32, 180x180, 512x512)
- **Background Design**: Expressive home page background with floating poker cards and Fibonacci numbers
- **Poker Table Layout**: Visual circular table with participants seated around it
- **Animated Reveals**: Card flip animation when votes are revealed
- **Material Design**: Consistent color scheme using Material Indigo and purple gradient

For more details on the favicon design, see [FAVICON.md](FAVICON.md).

## Future Enhancements

Possible improvements:
- Timer for voting rounds with countdown
- Custom card values configuration
- Room password protection
- Vote history and statistics tracking
- Export results to CSV or PDF
- Multiple voting rounds history
- Spectator mode (observe without voting)
- Custom themes and color schemes
- Voice/video chat integration
- Integration with Jira/Linear/GitHub Issues

## Support

For issues and questions:
1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/planning-poker/issues) page
2. Create a new issue with details about your problem
3. Include browser version and error messages

---

Built with ❤️ using Angular 17+ and Supabase

Commit message:

Update README with streamlined admin joining flow
- Update "Joining a Room" section to explain PIN dialog
- Update "Rejoining as Admin" section to reflect single-dialog flow
- Remove outdated references to two-step confirmation process
- Clarify that leaving PIN empty joins as regular participant
- Make instructions match the current combined dialog implementation

README.md, after:

# Planning Poker

A production-ready Planning Poker application built with Angular 17+ and Supabase for reliable real-time synchronization.

## Features

- **Real-Time Sync**: Reliable cross-browser synchronization with Supabase PostgreSQL and real-time subscriptions
- **Admin Controls**: Room creator has exclusive control over voting sessions
  - Start Voting button to begin estimation rounds
  - Reveal/Hide votes toggle
  - Reset votes for new rounds
  - Remove participants from room
- **Visual Poker Table**: Interactive circular table with participants seated around it
- **Share Room**: Copy room URL to clipboard for easy team sharing
- **Custom Favicon & Background**: Expressive Planning Poker themed design
- **PWA Support**: Web app manifest for installation on mobile devices
- **Modern Stack**: Angular 17+ with Standalone Components and Signals
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first UI with Angular Material
- **GitHub Pages**: Free static hosting with automated deployments
- **Persistent Storage**: Data backed by PostgreSQL database
- **Free Tier Available**: Generous Supabase free tier (500MB database, 5GB bandwidth)

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Angular 17+ (Standalone Components)
- **State Management**: Angular Signals
- **Real-Time Sync**: Supabase (PostgreSQL + Real-time subscriptions)
- **UI Library**: Angular Material
- **Styling**: SCSS
- **Hosting**: GitHub Pages
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm
- Angular CLI 17+

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/planning-poker.git
cd planning-poker
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. **Set up Supabase** (required):
   - Follow the detailed setup guide in [SUPABASE_SETUP.md](SUPABASE_SETUP.md)
   - Create a Supabase project
   - Set up database tables
   - Configure environment files with your API keys

### Development Server

Run the development server:
```bash
npm start
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any source files.

### Build

Build the project for production:
```bash
npm run build:prod
```

The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## How to Use

### Creating a Room

1. Go to the home page
2. Enter your name
3. Click "Create New Room"
4. Share the generated Room ID with your team

### Joining a Room

1. Go to the home page
2. Enter your name
3. Click "Join Existing Room"
4. Enter the Room ID shared by your team
5. Click "Join Room"
6. In the dialog:
   - Enter the admin PIN if you're the room creator rejoining with admin rights
   - Leave empty to join as a regular participant
7. Click "OK" to join the room

### Voting

1. The room creator (admin) starts by clicking **"Start Voting"**
2. Once voting starts, all participants can select a card value (Fibonacci: 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 35, 50, 100, ?)
3. Votes are hidden from others until revealed
4. Admin clicks **"Reveal Votes"** to show all votes with animated card flip
5. View the average calculation (excluding "?" votes)
6. Admin clicks **"Reset Votes"** to start a new round (returns to "Start Voting" state)

### Admin Features

The room creator has exclusive admin controls:
- **Admin PIN Protection**: Set an optional PIN when creating a room for persistent admin access
  - Admin ID persists permanently (no 24-hour expiry)
  - Use PIN to regain admin access when returning to the room
  - Regular participants still have 24-hour session expiry
- **Start Voting**: Begin a new voting round (clears previous votes automatically)
- **Reveal/Hide Votes**: Toggle vote visibility for all participants
- **Reset Votes**: Clear all votes and return to initial state
- **Remove Participants**: Remove any participant from the room (except yourself)
- **Share Room**: Copy full room URL to share with team members

### Rejoining as Admin

To rejoin a room as admin after closing your browser:
1. Go to the home page and click "Join Existing Room"
2. Enter your name and the Room ID
3. Click "Join Room"
4. In the dialog, enter the admin PIN you set when creating the room
5. Click "OK" to join as admin with full admin controls

**Note**: If you leave the PIN field empty, you'll join as a regular participant instead.

## Deployment to GitHub Pages

### One-Time Setup

1. Go to your GitHub repository
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Pages**
3. Under **Build and deployment**:
   - Source: Select "GitHub Actions"

### Automatic Deployment

The application is configured to automatically deploy to GitHub Pages on every push to the `main` branch.

The GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/deploy.yml`) will:
1. Install dependencies
2. Build the Angular app with the correct base href
3. Deploy to GitHub Pages

### Manual Deployment

To manually trigger a deployment:
1. Go to the **Actions** tab in your repository
2. Select the "Deploy to GitHub Pages" workflow
3. Click "Run workflow"

### Update Base Href

Make sure to update the `base-href` in [package.json](package.json) to match your repository name:

```json
"build:prod": "ng build --configuration production --base-href /your-repo-name/"
```

Replace `your-repo-name` with your actual GitHub repository name.

## Project Structure

```
planning-poker/
├── src/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── home/
│   │   │   │   ├── home.component.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── home.component.html
│   │   │   │   └── home.component.scss
│   │   │   └── room/
│   │   │       ├── room.component.ts
│   │   │       ├── room.component.html
│   │   │       └── room.component.scss
│   │   ├── services/
│   │   │   └── supabase.service.ts
│   │   ├── environments/
│   │   │   ├── environment.ts (created from template)
│   │   │   ├── environment.prod.ts (created from template)
│   │   │   └── environment.template.ts
│   │   ├── app.component.ts
│   │   ├── app.config.ts
│   │   └── app.routes.ts
│   ├── assets/
│   │   └── home-background.svg
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── favicon.svg
│   ├── favicon-*.png
│   ├── apple-touch-icon.png
│   ├── manifest.json
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── main.ts
│   └── styles.scss
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── deploy.yml
├── SUPABASE_SETUP.md
├── FAVICON.md
├── angular.json
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── README.md
```

## Architecture

### SupabaseService

The `SupabaseService` handles all Supabase interactions and exposes Angular Signals for reactive state management:

- **State Management**: Uses `WritableSignal<RoomState>` for reactive updates
- **Real-Time Sync**: Connects to Supabase PostgreSQL with real-time subscriptions
- **Heartbeat**: Sends periodic updates to show active participants
- **Real-Time Updates**: Automatically syncs votes, participants, and reveal state
- **Persistence**: Data stored in PostgreSQL database

### Components

#### HomeComponent
- Create new rooms with random alphanumeric IDs
- Join existing rooms by entering a Room ID
- Input validation for user name

#### RoomComponent
- Visual poker table with participants seated around it
- Fibonacci voting cards (0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 35, 50, 100, ?)
- Admin-only controls (Start Voting, Reveal/Hide, Reset, Remove Participants)
- Vote state management (disabled until admin starts voting)
- Animated vote reveal with card flip effect
- Average calculation using computed signals
- Share room URL button (copies full URL to clipboard)
- Copy Room ID button (copies just the ID)
- Real-time participant updates around the table

## Supabase Configuration

The application uses Supabase for reliable real-time synchronization across browsers and machines.

### Database Tables

- **rooms**: Stores room state (revealed status, voting_started flag, admin_user_id)
- **participants**: Stores participant information (votes, names, lastSeen timestamps)

### Real-Time Subscriptions

The app subscribes to PostgreSQL changes using Supabase Realtime:

- **Participant updates**: Detects when users join, vote, or leave
- **Room updates**: Detects when votes are revealed or reset
- **Automatic cleanup**: Stale participants (inactive >10 seconds) are removed

### Benefits of Supabase

- ✅ **Reliable**: No dependency on unreliable public relay servers
- ✅ **Cross-browser sync**: Works reliably between different browsers and devices
- ✅ **Persistent storage**: PostgreSQL database with proper backups
- ✅ **Scalable**: Handles many concurrent users
- ✅ **Admin features**: Database-backed admin controls and permissions
- ✅ **Free tier**: Generous limits (500MB DB, 5GB bandwidth)

## State Management

The application uses Angular Signals for reactive state management:

- **Room State Signal**: Central state containing participants, votes, reveal status, and voting_started flag
- **Computed Signals**: Derived values like average vote, participant count, voted count, and admin status
- **Automatic Reactivity**: UI updates automatically when Supabase pushes state changes via real-time subscriptions

## Mobile Support

The application is fully responsive with mobile-first design:
- Touch-friendly voting cards
- Responsive grid layouts
- Mobile-optimized navigation
- Adaptive typography and spacing
- PWA support for installation on mobile devices
- Apple touch icon for iOS home screen
- Responsive poker table that scales on mobile devices

## Browser Support

- Chrome/Edge (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)
- Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for any purpose.

## Troubleshooting

### Database Migration (Existing Installations)

If you're updating from an earlier version, you need to add new columns to your existing database:

```sql
-- Add voting_started column (if not already added)
ALTER TABLE rooms ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS voting_started BOOLEAN DEFAULT false;

-- Add admin_pin column for persistent admin access
ALTER TABLE rooms ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS admin_pin TEXT;
```

Run this in your Supabase SQL Editor (Settings → Database → SQL Editor).

### Supabase Connection Issues

If you experience sync issues:
1. Verify your Supabase API keys are correct in environment files
2. Check that database tables exist (see [SUPABASE_SETUP.md](SUPABASE_SETUP.md))
3. Ensure the `voting_started` column exists in the `rooms` table
4. Ensure Realtime is enabled for both tables
5. Check browser console for errors
6. Verify your Supabase project is not paused (free tier)

### Build Errors

If you encounter build errors:
1. Delete `node_modules` and `package-lock.json`
2. Run `npm install` again
3. Clear Angular cache: `rm -rf .angular/cache`
4. Run `npm run build:prod`

### Deployment Issues

If GitHub Pages deployment fails:
1. Check the Actions tab for error logs
2. Ensure GitHub Pages is enabled in repository settings
3. Verify the base-href in package.json matches your repo name
4. Check that the workflow has the correct permissions

## Visual Design

The application features custom Planning Poker themed graphics:
- **Custom Favicon**: Poker card design with Fibonacci number "8" in Material Indigo
- **Multiple Icon Sizes**: SVG, ICO, and PNG formats for all devices (16x16, 32x32, 180x180, 512x512)
- **Background Design**: Expressive home page background with floating poker cards and Fibonacci numbers
- **Poker Table Layout**: Visual circular table with participants seated around it
- **Animated Reveals**: Card flip animation when votes are revealed
- **Material Design**: Consistent color scheme using Material Indigo and purple gradient

For more details on the favicon design, see [FAVICON.md](FAVICON.md).

## Future Enhancements

Possible improvements:
- Timer for voting rounds with countdown
- Custom card values configuration
- Room password protection
- Vote history and statistics tracking
- Export results to CSV or PDF
- Multiple voting rounds history
- Spectator mode (observe without voting)
- Custom themes and color schemes
- Voice/video chat integration
- Integration with Jira/Linear/GitHub Issues

## Support

For issues and questions:
1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/planning-poker/issues) page
2. Create a new issue with details about your problem
3. Include browser version and error messages

---

Built with ❤️ using Angular 17+ and Supabase
